Grammer

Cases

There are 4 caeses in German. Nominative, Accusative, Dative and
Genitive. English only has two cases so things are set to become
complicated from the get go. Luckily the Germans only use 3 of these
cases for the most part. You can confuse a German whilst speaking
perfectly correct German by sing their Genitve case as most of them will
not activly recognise it (?). 

Nominative:
	The nominative is for the identification of things in themselvs.
	I, you, he, it. I am, you are et..
	
Accusative:
	For the identification of static action. I wash "myself", ich
	wasche mich. This is a direct objust pronoun. It tells directly
	who or what is the object of the action of a verb. 
	Ring me, hit me, paint you, fix you.
	
	
Dative:
	Ich wasche mir die Harre, (I wash my hair!). So "wash" s
	relexive but when used not in the English reflexive sense then
	it takes the dative. 
	This is because the main subject of this verb is the "hair", it
	is the hair that is being washed ! 
	   It is also used when the subject of the verb is moving from
	   one place to another, give it to me, show the picture to you
	   here "it" and picture are the subjects of the main verb, the 
	   pronound is ancilliry to the scentence, hence they are in the
	   dative??
	   
	   
And one more time for kicks, Nominative is used for words that are the
purpotrtor of the verb, or the subject of the verb. Accusative are words
that are having the action described being done to them. They are the
direct object. The dative are for the inderect object, for words that
come after certain prepositions whoose existence casts such words into
the indirect position. 

Nominative		Accusative		Dative

ich	I 		mich	me (myslef)		mir	to/for/from me
du	you		dich	you		dir	to/for/from you
er 	he		ihn	him		ihm	to/for/from him
sie	she		sie	her		ihr	to/for/from her
es	it		es	it		ihm	to/for/from it
man	one		einen	one		einem	to/for/from one
wir	we		uns	us		uns	to/for/from us
ihr	yous		euch	yous		euch	to/for/from you
Sie	you		Sie	you		ihnen	to/for/from
sie	they		sie	them		ihnen	to/for/from


Examples.

ich bin.		er sagt zu mich		er kommt zu mir
						er annbrennt mir
						
Reflexive Verbs						
